Back in Washington and mutual coverage of the McCarthy Army hearings before the Senate's
prominent subcommittee on investigations, the stenographer is now repeating some of the
previous testimony of Robert T. Stevens at the request of Senator McCarthy.
Here's their any other examples.
Our statements are connected with the September 16th visit of the Shine apartment, the Chebs
in the light on the issues of this controversial sectarian.
Will you please tell these gentlemen on the committee what that is?
I remember very clearly, Senator McCarthy asking me if why I couldn't make use of what he
called David Shine special qualification.
He went on to suggest that David Shine might be made a special assistant to me, or perhaps
a special assistant to the intelligence division, the G2 division of the Army, in connection
with crimeists.
And I told Senator McCarthy that such an arrangement I did not think was possible, and especially
where a young man of rap day was concerned.
Anything else you could have heard of Inter-Svisture from Stephen?
I think that is the substance of what there is on the issues.
Where did you go from there?
I came back to Washington.
Did you go up town in New York to any meeting of the Senator's committee?
No sir.
Do you recall whether or not on meditation David Shine drove you anywhere in his automobile?
He did not.
You forthright came back to Washington.
That's correct.
Did you have a bad coming here a conversation with Senator McCarthy with respect to his investigations
in the first Army area?
Well I just discussed that with him yesterday.
Were there any conclusions reached with respect to that investigation?
Well we were processing those three cases to find out what the facts were.
There were three men in their investigation that you knew of.
Two men and one woman.
You have received that information from Senator McCarthy that is the names of these two men and one woman.
And I say those were the three that I saw listening to the paper.
When I was your September 16th, did you next contact either the Senator or his staff or the Senator and his staff contact you?
I believe that was a telephone or otherwise.
My recollection is that it was on the 21st of September at a executive hearing of this committee.
There, here in this building, here in this building.
Yes sir.
Did you have any discussion with Senator McCarthy or the members of the staff at that time?
This was a, I came over for the purpose of, I mean, invitation of Mr. Senator McCarthy to return to testimony that was going on in the second session.
Was anything said to you all not at all?
Our own let's say that he and his rescinder are any member of his staff and referenced it.
He gave it a chance.
I do not recall it what I was.
Is there any other event that occurred that day?
That is the 21st day of September.
That's right.
Have any injuries?
Well, of course the proceedings in the hearing.
I can go ahead and submit the names.
I don't know, but with respect to any attempt on the part of this committee,
I think you need to secure preferences for our chat.
Mr. Secretary, when was your next contact with the Senator and his committee?
I think the next contact was on the 2nd of October.
Where was that?
That was in my office.
I was in the station.
That was, that was the result of, that was motivated from the senators under the law.
Initiated by the Senator are his back.
That's correct.
What purpose?
The purpose, uh, uh,
for the events needing to, to the initiation of that conference,
by the McCarthy Investigating Committee.
Well, Mr. Cohen came over to see me and he was fired October 2nd.
No, no, I'm sorry.
On the 2nd.
On the 2nd, yeah.
And he was joined a few minutes thereafter, got there by Mr. Carr.
I'm fine to work it.
One more.
I think the record should show,
while there's working nothing improper about the secretary's doing,
and he's got a perfect right to do it,
if the record should show however that, uh,
he is not making the answers from room, right,
but from the room, the chairman prepared, and as before him,
I think the record should show who prepared them and ran them.
If I'm incorrect, then this secretary is not using a memorandum,
but I think the record should show that.
We make a sure, which is like a threat.
I'm not indicating, because anything improper about your using a memorandum,
I do think it should be clear that,
that's one of your always best question, mate.
I like that question, mate.
I think it's just some little solicitor's decisions.
Are you referring to a memorandum in the giving of your testimony?
Very well, I have a here, uh, well, I call it chronological,
let's update.
I will ask you who prepared that memorandum,
are you, if you are, did someone on your behalf?
Well, I think it was the result of a joint effort,
the transactions between you and the room and council,
that is Mr. Web, Mr. Simplair.
They whether or not he was prepared from your own recollection of events
and are any memorandum data or documents that you have in your possession?
Oh, yes, sir.
Is it in your opinion and accurate memorandum?
Yes, sir.
Very well.
Now, yes.
My diary follows that the memorandum in the Sampara give me
a part of the record so that anyone reading the record will know
about the secondary of the frame does he make these matters?
Do you have any objection, Mr. Stevens,
to making that memorandum a part of the record when you shall?
Have finished with it?
Yes.
Mr. Chamin, a copy of this chronology has been handed to Mr. Jenkins.
Mr. Jenkins knowledge is the case.
Happily or so good that he doesn't have very very early.
The company has been handed.
And apparently the witness has to refer to it very seldom.
But Mr. Jenkins, I think we'll confirm that a copy was supplied here.
But the senator won't even say,
because he's found as an exhibit to Mr. Stevens' testimony.
And I think if you have no objection to that,
do you, Mr. Stevens, determine the whether it's him?
May I add that it's a closely a simple chronology,
and it is not fully abrasive of all retest warnings
that the witness will give.
Or is there any objection to it, whatever it may be?
Mr. Jenkins, if it were a secret,
it would not have been in your possession.
Thank you very much.
Mr. Chamin, I understand it's not answered that there is no objection
between the file.
Well, there is not.
Thank you very much.
Mr. Chamin, let's go.
Mr. Chamin, then we set a precedent
by this procedure and by a jealousist,
that ever witness who now gives your after,
that reversed the innumerable random gib black testimony
and file it with the committee.
All right.
Excuse me, Mr. Secretary,
we are now at the meeting in your office
in the Pentagon on October 2nd.
Is that correct?
Yes, sir.
Who is present at that meeting?
Mr. Chamin, first,
was later joined the few minutes later by Mr. Carb.
I was the only other person there.
Senator McCarthy was not present at any time at that meeting.
No, sir.
Will you please now show this parade in detail
what occurred at that meeting?
Mr. Chamin told me that about the forthcoming investigation
at month,
and he said that the general law
was the commanding general of the Fourth Monmouth installation.
That's taken some action which made it difficult for
the staff of Senator McCarthy's committee
to get the information they wanted by talking with the people
they wanted to talk to at Fourth Monmouth.
And he said,
preparing their ability to do the job.
I said, well, I wanted to cooperate with the committee.
This is very limited my ability.
And in their presence,
then and there, I called General Lawton on the telephone,
what did you say to General Lawton
been in there in the presence of Ms. Kuhn-Mitchfah?
I told General Lawton that I wanted full cooperation by him
and the members of his staff
and that he was to make available those people
at his installation
that properly accredited representatives of Senator McCarthy's committee
at one of the interviews.
What's the answer to anything transpired on that occasion
between you and Ms. Kuhn-Mitchfah?
Mr. Kuhn particularly was referenced to G. David Shane,
Mr. Kuhn brought up the matter of G. David Sean
and wanted to know if he couldn't be assigned to New York City.
Why did he say he wanted to be in the stands in New York City?
Well, he said there was a lot of committee work
that had to be attended to
and that he was sure there were various assignments around New York City
that the Army could assign David Sean to.
What was your plan of that?
My reply to that was that if David Sean
were actually inducted into the Army
that he would have to take the regular Army training.
Ms. Kuhn-Mitchfah did indicate for him
that if committee business required David Sean
assistance to the early stages of his military training
that I would cooperate to the best of my ability
in making David Sean available for committee work
providing a commitment of fear with.
Now is a good time, Mr. Secretary,
for you to explain to this committee
the routine through which a draft C is put
upon being inducted into the Army
and particularly with reference to his training,
the duration of his training,
and the character of his training
without going into unnecessary details.
Well, in general, Mr. Jenkins,
what's known as the plea and documentation period,
that's a period during which the inductee
is sent to the induction reception center.
It's a period during which he is being issued
is calling being given various tests,
medical attention, assigned to unit,
and in ordinary course of events,
all of that takes in the general nature
about a week or two.
It depends on the scope of the care
and immediately after the induction of the draft
the end of the Army, after he's sworn in.
Yes, usually that.
That's the first about a week's time.
Sometimes longer, those will occur on the base
after he can't do which inductees are sent.
The reception center, no, am I not the one
at particular place in this case, it was.
Following that, what is the routine?
Then, at the start of a next cycle,
a basic training, which might happen to get within a week
after the inductee came in or it might be two
or in some case, even the longest three weeks,
then that's the joins of cycle.
That cycle is 16 weeks of basic training,
which is broken in the middle after the eighth week
with two weeks, please.
The injury accepts things in the regulations of routine
except in exceptional cases.
For a draftee to a paid or a scheme,
that cycle of training, the minimum 16 weeks
of basic training, that's what I mean.
Also, there's no reason to escape that, sir,
but I know that.
All right, Mr. Cohen discussed and viewed the assignment
of shine to the New York area,
is that correct or not?
That's right.
Did it not always say anything about making an exception
to the room with respect to shine insofar as his basic training
with some say, why don't we share the committee
what that was?
You are in the front of New York without basic training.
What would you regard to that, Mr. Secretary?
That could not be done.
Why did he tell you he wanted to be resigned
in New York without basic training?
The indicators that there was committee work.
David Shine was needed for, remember that, very clearly.
Had you ever up to that time,
excuse the draftee from basic training?
I had no knowledge of any exception ever being made.
Very well.
Will you relate to the committee anything else
that transpired on that October 2nd meeting?
I think that's just about covers that...
You say Mr. Cohen, car was present, that's right.
Did Mr. Carr make any statement, whatever?
Insofar as your recollection,
I'm able to answer that question.
You mean with respect to David Shine?
Did Mr. Carr make any statement that that conference?
Did any of your seats, for shine?
I do not recollect that he did.
I think the conversation on shine
was entirely what Mr. Cole.
Mr. Stevens, I will ask you whether or not
a medication.
I will ask you to state that the degree of insistence
on the part of Mr. Cole
was respect to Shine being excused
from a part of his basic training
or all of it or being transferred to the first Army A.V.
Well, Mr. Jenkins, I felt that it was somewhat unusual
and that there was a degree of insistence
in Mr. Shine's approach to the subject.
It's a little hard to evaluate
the degree of a situation, but is that?
I knew that Mr. Cole was serious about this matter.
There was no question about that.
Who's your next friend next to this committee?
The next contract for the committee was on the 13th of October.
Where is it?
That was in New York, sir.
Who is this?
That's what I want to New York in order to attend
hearing of this committee.
You conducted this senator MacArthur,
conducted by Senator MacArthur,
and going to Mr. Car, perhaps other members of his band.
That's right, sir.
Where is the executive hearing?
Yes, sir.
Where is the interconnection with the alleged infiltration
of Communists in the Army?
At Fort Mama, yes, sir.
An espionage?
Yes, sir.
And whose direction or who initiated that visit to New York
on October 13th?
Was that done over your own volition?
Did the senator invite you or how was that, Mr. Secretary?
The I can't exactly remember.
I know that I wanted to go to some of those hearings.
They had started on the 8th of September officially on the Fort Mama
hearings.
Did anybody come to you on that trip, yes, sir?
Who's that, Mr. Adams?
When did Mr. Adams have the current
council for the Department of the Army
on the first day of October?
Now he and his neighbors didn't know he was 13 days.
That's correct.
And since whether or not you have the same hearing
with your liaison officer or company,
between you and the McCrady committee,
yes, sir.
When Mr. Adams became the councilor for the Department of the Army,
I called him into my office and sat down and had a chat with him.
And I told him I charged him with the primary responsibility
of liaison between the Department of the Army
and this committee.
I told him that I wanted him to cooperate fully with the committee
and made it his primary mission.
Of course, Mr. Adams was new on the job.
Did you personally know Mr. Adams of that time?
I've met him only a few days before.
Can't you know the thoroughly and conclusion
of investigation of his qualifications and of his records?
I certainly have looked into it, yes, sir.
Very well, and I was very pleased with it.
Now, when you state Mr. Secretary what occurred in New York
on October 13th and particularly what the affinity was said
are done shedding light on the issue of whether or not the senator
or any member of his staff sought undue lead
to obtain preferential treatment for G. David Shai.
They were executive hearings and I think it's a federal
part building there in New York just twice in the morning.
I sat as a spectator with some of the twice-ning of the witnesses.
There was no discussion about Mr. Shai.
I see during the course of the hearing I invited Senator McCarthy
of his staff to have lunch with me.
We did have lunch in the air
at the merchants club in New York.
Anything is there to feed at that luncheon.
Between the respective parties to that front of the way
to his reference to Shai.
I don't recall anything significant.
Was or not the discussion in the main with reference
to the senator's investigation like it was then underway?
That was correct, Mr. Jackins.
Mr. Steven, did you at that time attempt to
assert any effort to first all or curred, say, or how
that investigation by the contrary, sir?
Did everything I said to the assistant?
Did you tell him in the executive session that afternoon?
I did.
Is that all with a third or not over 13 that you consider
of injuries?
Yes, sir.
And the time that the man that was sent by either the senator
was deported by all the members of his staff with reference
to G David Chin on Medicaid.
I have another particular.
What was your next meeting with the committee or any member
of his staff day on a 14th in New York City?
Yes, sir.
And stay there overnight.
You did not see the senator or any member of his staff
on the evening or night.
I did on the evening of the 13th of October.
By the way, if I had said that the hearings at Fort Monmouth
officially started in September, I meant it to be October.
I think the official starting date was the 8th of October.
Very well, now, who was it today that you saw on the night of the 13th?
Where?
Drop this, sir.
The particular reference to Jack.
Well, it was, uh, uh, Mr. Jenkins, there was a dinner party.
Where was it given?
It was given in a five-attining room at the Waldorf Astoria.
Ah, by whom?
I think it was given by Mr. and Mrs. Sean Senior.
Well, and I think the senator McCarthy invited me to attend.
Where did you attend?
Yes, sir.
That was a dinner party given by the parents of Fah-ha-ha.
How G-Dated Shine, it was at the time.
That's correct.
All was the night of October 13th.
Yes, sir.
Attended by you?
Got a bombing.
Senator McCarthy?
Yes, sir.
G-Dated Shine.
Mr. Colme?
Yes, sir.
Anyone else?
Uh, Judge Colme and Mrs. Colme were there.
They are all the parents of Mr. Roy Colme.
That is correct.
Uh, Mrs. McCarthy was there.
Mr. Senators, why?
That's right.
Uh, Mr. Mrs. Richard Berlin were there.
Uh, there were...
As I recall it, there were two young ladies that were there, but I don't recall their names.
Mr. Jenkins.
Possibly another couple.
I need to get there, Mr. Smith.
I should possibly another couple.
What's with anything?
Mr. Secretary said to you on the set of keys.
From the Beck Mahogany panel caucus room in the Senate office building in Washington.
The neutral has been bringing you a special coverage of the congressional hearings,
and Senator Joseph Barber, McCarthy is disposed for the office.
I owe our I.P. exempted from the argument.
What?
Would you repeat that, sir?
The private shine himself making the request of you on the set of keys.
Not on other keys, another.
Then as I understand it, Mr. Secretary, there was nothing of interest on medication.
Insofar as this committee is concerned,
with reference to the allegations in your bailiff's particular, is that correct?
Yes, sir.
When will your next contact with the committee?
Well, then, I stayed overnight in New York that night,
and the following morning, a fire arrangement, uh, David Sean,
six me up in his car at the corner of 37th Street in Park Avenue,
at approximately 9.30 in the morning, just take me down to the here.
Who made those arrangements for our David Shane to take you down to this?
Can I make those arrangements?
I would call for you, the favor, please.
The two of you wrote together in an automobile given by him,
made the better courthouse where the senator was conducting his year.
That's right.
Ampstichuthanloji?
Yes, sir.
Anything said to you, that day?
By the senator or any member of his staff,
with reference to any preference or treatment to be accorded, Shane?
Well, uh, let's just sign an eye,
that's by an interesting talk in the car,
sliding down how.
Uh, will you relate what that conversation was, Mr. Secretary?
Well, the conversation was along the line that, uh,
I was doing a good job in feriting our communists.
Was that your statement, or their ears?
That was Mr. Sean's statement.
Very well. That, uh, people, I could go a long way in this field.
And that he would like to help me.
He, uh, thought that it was, with me much more,
a much more logical plan for him to become a special assistant of mine,
then to do one, to a certain communist,
a former, a former communist speaking program in the Army,
and, uh, he thought that would be a more logical assignment
than being abducted into the Army.
Now, I told David Sean, substantially this,
is that the first time that David Shane ever implemented
the use of any wanted some special dispensation,
that's my first definite recollection.
A loyal and you take told David Shane what.
I said to him that one of the best things that had ever happened to me in my life
was my opportunity for service in the United States Army in two world wars.
But I felt that he would face up to his forthcoming induction
and approach it in the right way, that he would look back on it for his life
as one of the great experiences that he'd had.
And that if for any reason he did not have takes this military training,
in my opinion, he would regret it the rest of his life.
And I pointed out to him that, uh, I had served,
and my sons had served, we all think we got a great deal out of it
in addition to having the opportunity of serving our country.
Do you recall his reply to that Mr. Sucke-Date?
I think that, uh, it made some impression on Mr. Sean,
I don't know of course how much.
That was on our two-refourth theme, does we understand?
That's correct.
During that theme, at any time, either it's the James Ronson-Gerl's way,
whether or not Senator McCroth here any member of his best,
did you experience the shame?
I do not recall that.
When did you come back to Washington?
I came back, uh, that afternoon.
When was your next contact with the committee?
My next contact with the committee was, uh,
was on October 20th, where this was a trip that we made to Fort Monmouth.
Me, meaning, meaning, meaning, uh, I had planned a trip, Mr. Jenkins.
To go down here, I wanted to visit the installation, see how things were.
The installation report might be interesting.
And, uh, I invited Senator McCroth here and any members of his staff,
or any members of the committee that cared to the bill along with me.
Senator McCroth, they take go.
Mr. Colin Wann.
Mr. Adams Wann.
Colonel Below Wann.
Mr. Jones, uh, Mr. Potter's office probably.
Wann and I think Mr. Rainbow.
Senator Jones, who soon has been in the office of the executive executive?
Was there a representative of any other member of this committee?
Well, yeah, I think Mr. Rainbow has done a deduction for the office of the president.
Do we understand Mr. Secretary, that all the men whose names you have mentioned,
left Washington and went together to Fort Monmouth by a friend?
Yes, sir.
Now, Mr. Secretary, without my asking you specific questions,
and, far the purpose of excavating this hearing as much as possible,
I want you to now take up the events of October 20th,
beginning with the start of the trip here in Washington and continue to out today.
Well, we left here by plane and flew to I think of the golden town of New Jersey.
Fair amount of discussion about, of course, the Fort Monmouth situation on the plane going down.
I have gained the impression and the, on the previous meeting,
which was the 14th of October in New York, that Senator McCartney,
and it was approaching the point where he felt that he would turn the prosecution,
he will, of the investigation over to the Army.
I think this was to start some on the plane.
We were met when we landed at the airport by Senator H. Alexander Smith of New Jersey
and General Lawton, the commanding general.
We drove to the Fort Monmouth installation,
and we were later turned by Congressman Hawking's class of the third New Jersey District.
We went into the airport's building and had a meeting with General Lawton and members of his staff,
which was all of us as I requested from Washington Attendance.
And that was where we had discussion of the security measures of Fort Monmouth,
opportunities for questioning the commanding general and members of his staff.
Then when that meeting adjourned, we went out for a visit around the installation to get an idea of what it was like,
about the different building where the laboratories were.
They either left with one question,
and you will not find that date and sit your installation secretary of the Army visited Fort Monmouth.
This was my first visit.
There we go.
Well, without much to chip around to some of these laboratories,
we came to one lab, which required a special security conference to gain a distance.
As Dr. Taylor said, the Army without leaving away any information that might be of greater comfort to the enemy,
if there is one, describe the nature of that installation.
Laptop installation has to do with advanced research and development on radar.